[documentation]: Formalise the release process (#3807)
hyperledger/iroha: docs/source/release_procedure.org

#+TITLE: Iroha v2 Release procedures
#+AUTHOR: Aleksandr Petrosyan
#+DATE: 2023-08-13
* About

> This document outlines the procedures which I recommend following during the release of Iroha v2 release candidates and recommendations for how to adjust these procedures when the v2.0.0 is made public, announced, and subsequent semantically versions packages are released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines the procedures which is recommended following during the release of Iroha v2 release candidates and recommendations for how to adjust these procedures when the v2.0.0 is made public, announced, and subsequent semantically versions packages are released.
```

* Timed release cadence

Because Iroha does not have a limited scope or road-map of features that could serve as punctuation for the project, and oftentimes ideas are proposed during the development process, it was decided to release Iroha as is in a timed- rather than feature-gated- cadence. As a benefit, but not goal of this approach, the change synchronisation with SDKs happens in a bite-sized manner, leading to a more smooth overall transition and gradual synchronisation of ideas. It allows the core development team to remain agile and adaptable. 

The timed cadence has a few disadvantages that could become relevant if the development pace slows down and features/fixes/optimisations become less prevalent than refactors and continuous integration improvements.

> However, it is my personal recommendation that the timed cadence be kept for as long as the core team retains the majority of its engineers in some capacity.

Reviewer: let's refrain from subjective/personal statements as it's getting merged after review and considered to be in a more or less final shape 

```suggestion
However, it is recommended that the timed cadence be kept for as long as the core team retains the majority of its engineers in some capacity.
```

* Release window

> The release window is the time period between the announcement of the particular release and the conclusion of the release procedure, excluding any postponed tasks such as testing.

Reviewer: Should we add that usually it's approx a week

* Internal releases

> If a particular build does not have any requisite support from the major SDKs, and/or contains a severe dysfunction that cannot be amended in a timely fashion, the technical lead has discretion to declare the release internal during the pre-release synchronisation meeting. 

Reviewer: again the committee may be mentioned instead of the lead

Reviewer: synchronisation meeting is not defined, let's remove this mention or reformat to an internal development team sync etc

The development is to be conducted in accordance with the [[../../CONTRIBUTING.md]] document. Employees of Soramitsu are given the option to work on a separate branch upstream in lieu of working from a personal fork (which is Hyperledger's main recommended method). The commit message format should not be overly verbose: commits that address several issues must be broken up into several (unless the opposite is more practical because of time pressure). The technical lead is given sufficient discretion to determine and change the commit messages to suit the contents of the commit, and all employees are to provide their verbal or written consent to this. In the event that the author of a commit has used an alternate email that is verifiably theirs (or is provided with a GitHub-sponsored email), the technical lead may manually override the DCO check.

* Release process

> A week before the release window is to open, the project manager is to conduct a pre-release sync meeting. The technical lead's responsibility is to then appraise all present of the main API-breaking changes that might require attention. In preparation, the technical lead is encouraged to walk through the differential of the current =iroha2-stable= branch and =iroha2-dev= to find any changes in =schema.json= as well as other tell-tale signs of API breakage.

Reviewer: ah, it's actually defined, but since it's internal in relation to the community, let's specify that?

Any major API breaking changes beyond this point are discouraged, unless a Pull Request already exists for it, any such change is to be postponed to the next release and marked as such. After both the core team and the SDKs have signed off on a release, the opening of the release window is announced in the =i2::lib= channel in telegram.

> The release window opening announcement is followed by the release of a =nightly= docker container through the continuous delivery system. Following that, a Pull Request from the =iroha2-dev= to the =iroha2-stable= (and =iroha2-lts= according to [[lts_selection.org]]) is created, with the release checklist as the description. Points on the checklist are ticked off as soon as they are met. 

Reviewer: Since it's stated here, should that be propagated to the community chat as well or it's ok to describe internal processes in the public repository 🤔

Reviewer 2: IMO, we need to notify both the community and Hyperledger TOC while ensuring the goals for the Iroha release planned for the future are being met.
